Before attaching the collar, ensure the
matching marks on the body
and collar are aligned.
After attaching the collar,
crease it down to 1 centimetre.
Place the right side of the body facing
outwards, and secure with a pin from
the centre back towards the right front.
Place the collar inside-out against the
body, aligning the collar peak with the
back seam's seam allowance,
and pin in place.
Align the 4 cm mark and pin flat 2 2
Align the 8.2 cm mark on the collar with
the 8 cm mark on the body and
secure with a mountain-pointed pin.
For collars 2 and 3, allow the collar
fabric to be 2 millimetres
slack around the shoulder area.
Slip your left hand beneath
the bodice and curve it.
When opening the carving, use four pins.
At this point, the seam allowance should
be 3 millimetres shallower
than the cut edge.
Place a pin between 2 and 4.
Next, align the markings for the underlap
position and secure with six pins.
Stretch taut between 3 and
6 and place a pin at 7.
Next, 10.1 cm and 10 centimetres
from the tip of the blade.
Align the matching marks
below and insert eight pins.
Place the lining on the table
and turn up the collar cloth.
Pull it diagonally all the
way to the tip of the blade.
At the collar tip and undercollar
fold, place 9 pins at a shallow angle.
Place a 5cm flat 20 pin
5cm from the collar edge.
Next, gather the lapel 6mm between
pins 8 and 10 and secure with pins.
Pin the lapel edge in place, then stretch
the lapel's seam allowance (dimension
1) taut and secure it with pins.
Pull the front edge diagonally leftwards
until the collar facing and front edge
collar attachment dimensions
lie flat, then secure with pins.
Pin the collar fabric along
the collar attachment line.
While removing it from the frame, I
re-pin the fabric with straight pins.
Pick up one stitch at the
collar edge with a crochet hook.
I shall stop.
Form a loop at the end of the thread.
Pull the needle up from beneath the hoop.
We will tighten it securely.
Sew with a 2.5 cm hem.
Continue sewing up to 2 centimetres
from the tip of the blade.
Remove the needle and allow the
thread to breathe sufficiently.
Sew with a 2.5 cm hem.
Raise the pin at point 6 so the fabric
does not slip, and attach the
collar to the lapel up to this pin.
Beyond this point lies the inner cape.
Remove the seam allowance and
attach the collar to the body.
Remove the stitches around the collar and
shoulders, then sew with two small
needles in a backstitch pattern.
Sew two small stitches around
the collar and shoulder area.
Remove the needle up to the back seam
allowance, take a thread breath, and make
one reverse stitch at the centre back.
Sew the left side in the same manner,
securing with basting stitches.
Finish the stitching with a slip stitch,
then backstitch 1 to 2 stitches
and secure with a knot.
Apply a flat iron to
the seam of the collar.
The seam allowance is 1mm, folded towards
the facing and pressed
with a pressing iron.
Adjust the collar and smooth the crease.